We had a number of people that that you know excelled in that area in the Corps of Cadets and went on to some stellar military careers.
Some people who were not so they were not overachievers as students and yet went on because of the Vietnam conflict to be leaders over there.
When I was a junior
that my CO was named Tom McAdams, who was killed in Vietnam, was a tank unit commander over there and killed in Vietnam.
And when I've been in Washington, I've looked his name up on the great wall there, the memorial there, and that there were people that were there, and I was, we're in the alumni building, and I was looking over there, the class of 66.
The ring there for the class of 66 was given by the family of Gene Oates,
And Gene Oates was a great big kid, a friend of mine, the class of 64, the year before me.
Over there, the ring says Colin Lamb.
We called him Ed back then.
He was a civilian.
And went over there, was a first lieutenant, and killed in the helicopter crash where General Westmoreland's brother-in-law was killed in that crash as well.
And that there were people who were here that you knew that they were going to be successful because of what they did and the way that they were as students.
I mean, they just had success labeled on them.
But there were also people who came out as great surprises and very pleasant surprises.
to do things.
Just as in any large group of people, there were also people who said, I have these goals and they never achieved them in life.
And that, so A&M in addition to being the great sameness, yet looking back 38 plus years now,
that we all, you know, fit the notch and probably that particular class of 65 you could slice up and we fit demographically into each percentile in accordance to the way we should fit in it.
All right.
Are there some people that if you could, if they could be brought back into your presence right now
Are there some faculty or staff members you'd like to thank for other than Wayne Stark?
You've already mentioned him.
Are there some others you'd like to thank for what you gained from them?
Again, I'm going to fall back on it because he had such a major impact on the game or my time that I was here from literally day one.
and insights that he gave me and introductions that he made and recommendations that Wayne Stark, that he basically did more than all others combined.
But again, you know, to bring up the point that while I was a full-time student all the time, that I also had about two other careers in addition to being a full-time student, that I was full-time
at doing that as well.
And so I'm probably not the best person to come back here and say, I'll always relive my years at A&M.
That was the highlight of my life, those four years.
It was an important and a very influential part.
It geared me for things.
It taught me for things.
It set me up for some things because of ideals that I got here and standards I got here, obviously, that later in life drew some disappointments.
What was your impression of President Earl Rutter at that time when you were a student?
I met him on two or three occasions that because I did a lot of things with the student center and was very close to Wayne Stark, that Wayne Stark was continually in Earl Rutter's doghouse.
Wayne Stark was a good soldier and rarely talked negatively about it, but if you were around him, you could perceive that things that Stark wanted to do, Rutter opposed either on the recommendation of some people, but not of others.
You've asked one person or another person that had an influence on there, and I want to give some credit to and thanks to James Hannigan.
that there were some stunts that as freshmen and I've told a couple of them here today that I can recall and I
I'm not always sure which one it was, but let's say that it was the pouring the oatmeal and the coke over the balcony over there that Dean Hannigan, as we called him then, we didn't call him General Hannigan, asked me one time one-on-one in his office if I ever aspired to graduate from Texas A&M and that he was the fellow who might allow me to do that if I pledged to him that I was gonna straighten up my act.
And again, I guess because when I came to A&M, it was so totally alien to any other kind of lifestyle that I had ever lived in 18 years that I freelanced or I didn't always react well to it.
that if somebody alluding to a sophomore, an unnamed sophomore, made my life miserable, then I generally tried to make his life miserable in some anonymous way.
And that, you know, I'm trying to think back.
I was involved in that year because I either came back early or left late, that I was part of the group that got all the bicycles.
Back then, you could ride a bicycle somewhere, and you didn't have to lock it.
And you could just park it, and if you had a bicycle, and it was always there.
Nobody stole anything.
But that at Christmas that year, my freshman year, that when we came back, all of the bicycles from the area that I lived in had all been stacked up in the quads.
That might have been it or, you know, going into the steam tunnels.
I got caught one time down there.
And I'm trying to think of the old man that was the chief of police, Henry Powell.
Describe the steam tunnels and what went on down there?
Well, they were warm, obviously, generally dry, and they would connect you from building to building.
How extensive were they?
I don't know how extensive they were.
I can tell you I was only in a small part of them.
You're jogging my memory on some of this, but when Fish Roberts and I would go out to liberate 15 watt red light bulbs from other dormitories, that I think that we went through those.
And that at one time, a campus policeman or a bull or somebody caught us coming out of one.
I can't recall who that was, but anyway, got turned in for that.
How did you get in them?
Where did you enter them?
There were grates around there.
I mean, they had places where they would come up, you know, to the ground, and on a cold day, you could see steam coming out of them.
So these were outdoor grates?
They would go, and I'm just saying this with no knowledge, just an assumption, that somewhere there was a machine that generated heat, that the pipes went into the dormitories.
There was no air conditioning.
but that all of the radiators were hooked up to a pipe that came from somewhere.
And the theory was that if you had a radiator, you had the potential of heat.
In the room that I was in, if you turned it on, you didn't have heat.
You had hot as hell.
And that we were on the first floor because the unit was in two different dormitories on the first floor with the vets, students, and the other three floors in both dormitories.
And I don't remember a great deal about it other than the rooms were always drafty and cold and the only thing worse was going and standing at attention in the shower singing Christmas carols for this junior that would take showers in the middle of the night.
Describe one I wish I'd mentioned a while ago.
Describe your room your freshman year physically.
What was in it?
It was a rectangle.
I cannot remember a closet in it.
But everybody had the same old piece of wood on wood furniture.
It seemed like when the laundry came back that your shirts were all folded.
And so there was really nothing that ever hung.
No, there were closets because as you walked in the door, that's right, okay, you walked in the door, you had a closet on either side.
Then the room was a rectangle, and it had one chest of drawers, and on either side of the chest drawers, each student had a desk and chair, a table and chair.
You could bring your own study lamp.
It had a pair of metal bunks, and I think in one corner you had a sink in those old dormitories, and that was it.
It had an overhead.
Was there a rug?
Oh, no.
No, freshman, it was not a freshman privilege to have a rug or drapery.
I don't think there was a window covering in it.
But the windows were generally so dirty it didn't make any difference.
And who was going to look in on you anyway?
Let's see.
Student indulgences.
What did students do?
What was a wild time on a weekend?
Six-pack of beer and the Skyway Drive-In Theater, or the Circle Drive-In Theater.
We had two drive-ins.
There was one down in Bryan where the Villa Maria Road McDonald's is now called the Skyway, and there was an old traffic circle where the intersection of University and South College Avenue is now.
And where that Albertsons used to be and that shopping center there was a drive-in theater.
And that going in there, and the campus theater was the hard top, we would call it today.
They showed old films over at Guy and Hall that were free my freshman year.
And most people, if they could, left.
That on the weekends, it was a ghost campus.
All right, what about whiskey or other alcohols?
Beer.
I never knew of anybody to have anything other than beer.
There was not a great deal of that.
I've already told my story about the only time that I ever was punished by bullring that I don't recall ever seeing anything
But beer, there were two or three places.
There was an Uncle Ed's.
There was a barbecue joint down what we call Weldon Road now.
There was Tom's that was over at the East Gate area that was Arnold's.
Yeah, it became Arnold's later on.
But that was years later.
No, the other way.
You're right.
It was Arnold's.
It became Tom's.
Yeah.
Or what about Whiskey Bridge?
Well, the bridge over the Brazos River that was called Whiskey Bridge and that there was a package store on the other side of it, but you know it's kind of one of those Never Never Lands, Valhalla, someplace where everybody talked about, but I never personally knew anybody that went there.
That by and large,
We could be described by today's standards as being dreadfully dull, boring, straight-laced.
What were people smoking then?
I don't recall that a whole lot of people on this campus smoked at that time.
They may have, but none of the group that I was around, I've never been around many smokers, and certainly if you're alluding to marijuana or anything like that, I did not know it.
I promise you.
that until after I graduated, I was never around.
I had never seen marijuana.
Did you even know the word?
I don't think so.
Or cocaine?
Oh, absolutely not.
Or any other kinds of drugs?
No, I didn't know any other kinds of drugs that
In trying to think about, even at bonfire or when you would have parties, that I can recall that outfits, you know, at the end of the year, and I would go to more than one outfits party after I got to be a junior because I knew people in different things and was pretty well accepted everywhere, would go to what they called a keg party, and somebody would have a keg, and you'd go somewhere out so remote that only God could find it.
Were the clay pits still around?
I never went to them down on the river.
I know about it, and there were people that said they did, but I had a young, as a what would now be called junior high school, when I was about 11 or 12, one of my friends drowned in the Brazos River down below Hempstead, and I had pretty much all my life stayed away from the Brazos River.
But then again, you know, I remind myself that I worked an awful lot and I probably missed out on a lot of the socializing and the fraternizations and the bonding that did it because I was at work one place or another.
Muster.
Did you go to Muster as an undergraduate?
I did.
Describe.
In fact, one year I spoke at a Muster in a town they wanted a cadet.
to come, and I think as a senior in my boots, one of the rare times that I wore my boots, that I went somewhere and I spoke in uniform to about 20 people, but I can't remember where that was.
But yes, but it has, the significance of it has grown much more.
At the time that I was graduating, or the time that I would have say been a sophomore, junior, senior,
Vietnam was just beginning to blossom, if I can use that word in the correct sense.
And we had not lost a lot of troops, and specifically not lost a lot of Aggies over there at that time.
And that muster where you have someone that holds a candle now for each person that the association is aware of that is deceased, seemed like that one year there were eight.
But understanding, I was at the A&M College of Texas that had 8,300 students, the largest student body they ever had, in September of 1961.
And in fact, one of the great dilemmas that I had to make in getting a senior ring was, do I want it to say on it Texas A&M University or to say the A&M College of Texas?
How did you feel about that name change?
I thought it was good.
To his credit, among the students here, Earl Rudder was really, really, really well thought of.
Highly admired.
We didn't have to work with him.
And I have friends that worked with him and said he could be a stern taskmaster.
But he was very, very popular with the students.
And that if he said it, our mentality, because of the core and the obedience that the core instilled, if he said it, we did it.
And that he said that we will grow into a college cannot become nationally and internationally known.
A university can.
It wasn't my goal, it was his goal, but if he said it, I did it.
One of the things I now know is that when that committee recommended that the name be changed to Texas State University, he was extremely opposed to losing the A&M.
And that when that proposal came up internally,
to change it to Texas A&M University without any periods that he liked that.
And that is a very distinctive identifier for us.
Let's see.
As you were preparing to leave the... Back up.
We'd muster silver taps.
Very, very solemn, very moving occasions because there were not many of us.
We did not lose a great number there.
I mean, when you have 40,000 plus, we all drive 90 miles an hour, a lot of things happen.
It was not a regularly scheduled event.
Now they simply have to have it monthly, I understand, because rarely does a month go by we don't lose a student for some reason.
We didn't have multiple fatalities.
That it was one of those things that in the truest sense of the spirit of the muster, the campus did go dark.
And that no one spoke.
And if you had the biggest quiz in the world at 8 o'clock in the morning, when Silver Taps was over at approximately 11.15, you went back, took off your clothes and got in your bunk.
When you were preparing to leave the campus as a new graduate, how well prepared did you feel A&M had made you for the real world?
At the time that I was preparing to leave the campus for what I was going to do, I thought I was well prepared.
When I got into the real world, it took me less than a year to find out that the world does not have the loyalty, even people on the same side.
As someone pointed out to me one time, it's inscribed on a building on the wall that Jesus chose 12 and one was a double.
And that
I was terribly disillusioned to find that everybody has feet of clay.
But as I left, I was ready to go and do, and if someone had said jump in the Tiger Pit, I would have probably jumped.
You know, it was the next thing on the agenda.
And much like the military does their people that go through jump school at Fort Benning, that you get conditioned to where, you know, if they say jump, you jump.
And luckily your static cord is hooked to a line.
But that by and large you are,
you are not equipped, at least I wasn't equipped, to deal with some of the things because even back then and maybe still now, it was still a rural and provincial school and the fact that, you know, I may have some ability to speak Spanish
doesn't make me a world-class linguist, especially if it's some derivative of Spanish.
And I also discovered that I am not, me personally, that because at A&M I had done a lot of different things, I would not be good ever.
and have proven that many times, to be a part of a larger organization to where somebody that may not know it's raining, that you've got a hole in your roof, they're not concerned with that, that rain's coming in on you.
So A&M probably prepared me best of all to think on my feet, to improvise, to never give up,
That just because things, you know, the score was 99 to nothing and it was the fourth quarter, you still dug in and worked hard.
The world sometimes doesn't work that way.
And you would know that.
What create, what has created or what does create Aggie spirit?
I think that union.
and I want to use the term union, the relationship of Aggies, one with another, male, female, young, old, is that we've had a common experience.
It's the much that makes a marriage successful, a business partnership successful, that we have all endured certain things.
The fact that in the class of 65 that if we went through things and I stood in a room with 23 other freshmen and had two or three sophomores in there screaming at us over some alleged incident, real or otherwise, we've all been through it.
And so we have that commonness that is the foundation of a friendship.
I spoke earlier of having two friends that were my friends here as students and we have remained very close friends in March.
I will be a part of the wedding ceremony for the younger son of one of these men.
that we vacation together, three families.
One lives in Louisiana, one in Fort Worth, and I'm here.
And that when we get together, we revert back to the way we were in the 60s.
You know, one of them is the real smart guy.
The other guy is the big, dumb guy.
And if somebody wants to know whether you cross when the light's red or when you cross when it's green, you ask me.
Are there some events?
in this common experience that helped create this Aggie spirit?
Probably things like the bonfire, probably things like the core trips where, you know, if we took a 20 year old today, let's bring three 20 year olds in here and say, I want you three guys to all sleep in a double bed together tonight in your underwear.
Well, you know, I've never said this on tape or to anybody else, but you know, I've slept in bed with two other guys, a double bed, and all we have on is our underwear, and we didn't think anything about it.
Because actually what had happened was we pulled the mattress off on the floor and there were three guys sleeping on the mattress on the floor while the other three of us slept in the box springs of the bed.
And that we have gone through some things, and much like my story of Jim Ray, that you know,
You would hate that something happens to someone you know, but I thought his experiences at A&M probably prepared him to be as strong and resolute in captivity of the Vietnamese as any captive they held.
All right, what about some of these other muster, bonfire, midnight yell practice?
When I was here, of course, the football team was so bad that I don't have positive remembrances of midnight Yale practice simply because the outcome the next day belied the spirit of the, the intended spirit of the Yale practice.
All right, is part of this spirit inclusiveness?
It's probably a spirit of us against the world type thing that would come in here.
When I was a student here, they didn't really have Aggie jokes.
That came after I was a graduate.
Part of the fact that probably came here is that if the three of us that are now 56, 57 years old, even people who have retired come back here.
A guy that was another classmate of mine that retired as a full colonel out of the Air Force came back here and we were visiting.
And we were remembering eating chicken fried steaks at Wehrman's.
Or for $1.25, you could get four pieces of fried chicken at Youngblood's with French fries.
And we go back and it would be much like anyone who went back to, let's say, their high school graduating class, assuming it was a relatively small school, maybe less than 200 people graduated.
But you all remembered when so-and-so was the homecoming queen and so-and-so broke his arm right before the big football game.
We have common memories.
and that we laugh about things that absolutely were not very pleasant.
You probably already talked to someone who has told you the story, but that if someone had to make a major trip to the bathroom, that the stalls in the bathroom, there were generally five toilets in the bathroom.
One was for freshmen, one was for sophomores, one was for juniors, one was for seniors, one was for emergencies, available to anybody, or if you had a social disease.
That was the one you used.
Well, the upperclassmen on cold nights, rather than sit on a cold toilet seat, you got a freshman to go sit on that seat till it was warm, then he had to get up and you sat on it.
And that, you know, we can laugh about those experiences, but I'd rather give you $50 than to have to go sit on an old cold toilet seat in a room that had no heat and the temperature outside might be 30 degrees.
And yet now, you know, tell the story, you're smiling as I tell you the story.
And if we told it, we'd all laugh about it out loud.
But it wasn't any fun then.
But it was a common experience.
What did it mean to you?
What has it meant to your life that you attended Texas A&M?
Living
three quarters of my life after I graduated in the local area probably has less lessened the impact on being an A&M graduate than it would for someone who has gone away and I fall back on the story of the old man in Monterey that wanted to know did the horses charge the reviewing stand at the end of the review because I have watched it grow much like if you looked at a small infant
and you see it every day, you don't notice it as it grows to be a snaggletooth six or seven year old or a freckle faced teenager or a young man.
It just grows right there and you're not cognizant of it on a moment to moment basis.
The people who have been away for three years or five years or 10 or 20 years come back and are awed and intimidated by the campus.
I guess that if I were going to characterize it and I had to give you one or two sentences to say that I have been an eye witness and an ear witness to the history of Texas A&M.
The university has gone in directions that I probably would not support.
Many times it has done things that make me immensely proud at other times.
It is bigger than the sum of its parts.
It is beyond the ability for me to tell a stranger about Texas A&M and have them believe what I say.
I don't carry that kind of credibility even if I swore on the Bible that it was the truth and nothing but the truth.
It's a Paul Bunyan story.
It's a part of Texas folklore.
It's a part of Texas humor.
It is something that many years ago that I knew that if I were ever in a critical situation, hungry, wet, penniless, and saw an Aggie ring, I knew that there was a safe harbor there.
I've long since
past the time that I would likely be hungry, wet, and penniless.
So I don't look for those rings.
But it would be a camaraderie and a friendship and a bond that I would have with a stranger